[Music]
foreign
I think we've been deprived of a lot
more than flying cars and Mars colonies
I think civilization is currently
burdened by a debilitating pessimism not
just Prophecies of Doom as they've
always existed there's something deeper
the term technological fix has become as
pejorative as Luddite used to be the
aspiration for technological solutions
is now widely regarded as naive a
fantasy that ignores the inevitability
of missteps and side effects and that
naivety is labeled optimism because
optimism has come to mean something like
the assumption that the best will happen
or probably will and pessimism that the
worst will
they're both false as general principles
no one adopts them their irrationalities
that people accuse each other of having
and everyone classifies themselves as
somewhere in the middle perhaps
admitting to a slight bias in One
Direction or the other and therefore
admitting to slight irrationality in
fact
both ends of the spectrum and the middle
are predictions of success or failure
may be probabilistic derived only from
an attitude or a principle not from
explanations of why reality should match
them and prediction without explanation
is prophecy conventional pessimism
is right that Civilization has no
guaranteed future
nor does our species the overwhelming
majority of civilizations and species
that have ever existed are now extinct
including significantly every one of our
cousin species every species that has
ever tried to survive by creating
knowledge that was not in their genome
how to make clothes and fire and farming
and to live the new ways of life that
that enabled that is our biological
niche to survive through the exercise of
creativity and we are the last species
left in that Niche for such species
stasis is not available
we conquer Problems by creating
knowledge or they conquer us so there's
nothing new in our situation of all
sorts of existential danger it's
undeniable that the worst can happen
because the very worst has already
happened many times all those
civilizations who believed that their
famines and droughts and disasters were
divine punishment for their wickedness
or whatever
in reality it was just that they didn't
know enough about irrigation medicine
and so on if the ancient Athenians had
known about
antibiotics or just about hygiene
they could have prevented the plague
that contributed to the fall of their
nascent optimistic society and if they
had then as Carl Sagan speculated we
might now be at the stars and Technology
would be regulating trivialities like
the planetary climate as automatically
as it's now regulating the temperature
in this room
we know that's possible because of a
momentous dichotomy that follows
directly from the rejection of the
supernatural namely every transformation
of physical systems
that is not forbidden by laws of physics
is achievable given the right knowledge
and hence the rational attitude to the
future is what I call optimism the
principle of optimism namely that all
Evils are caused by lack of knowledge
that isn't a prophecy of success it's an
explanation for failure if we fail at
anything that's physically possible it's
because of some knowledge that we fail
to create
admittedly some of the dangers that we
currently foresee
are themselves side effects of knowledge
creation but trying to slow that down
won't help because what do you slow down
in 1900 no one could possibly have
foreseen that research in pure physics
into the esoteric properties of the
element Uranium
would within 50 years become the
centerpiece of everyone's existential
fear or that another half century later
the centerpiece would be carbon dioxide
in our future too the greatest dangers
will inevitably be unforeseen and the
only type of knowledge that's capable of
dealing with those is fundamental
knowledge of universal regularities in
nature any area of fundamental research
could suddenly become essential to our
survival biology engineering
in World War II pure mathematics was we
also need knowledge of how to structure
human institutions to retain the
miraculous property of keeping
civilization stable under rapid change
traditions of criticism and error
correction and we need wealth
meaning the ability to deploy technology
in practice
and there's a final consideration the
world doesn't just contain optimists and
pessimists and wise and unwise
Technology users it contains enemies of
civilization as well and knowledge is
impartial it can be used for good or
evil but the enemies of civilization all
necessarily have one thing in common
they are wrong and so they fear error
correction and truth and that's why they
resist changes in their ideas which
makes them less creative and slower to
innovate so our defense against the
existential Danger from malevolent uses
of technology is speed the good guys
must use their only advantage to stay
ahead
foreign